
The short story The Most Dangerous Game by Richard
Connell is about the hunter and the hunted but later in the story it
becomes ironic because it turns into a game were the hunter becomes
the hunted. It turns into a chase of competition and of survival. 
Two sailors Rainsford and his partner Whitney sailed in to the
darkness of the of sea. Their purpose was to hunt, they called it the 
greatest sport. They were hunters and headed to the Amazon to hunt
vicious animals such as Jaguars, and tigers.
They sailed to an island called Ship-Trap Island. Sailors
feared this island and had curious dread of such a scarry place. The
sky was filled with darkness when suddently he heard Three gun
shots that were fired, and heard them again and again. Then he heard
a scream while smoking a pipe when suddently the pipe fell and as he
tried to reach for it he whent down into the sea were the waves
swallowed his screams.
Nobody could have heard him as the ocean swallowed his
screams and the only chance of survival was to swim. Rainsford
swam towards the screams and ended up in the Island. He walked on
the shoreline and later found a place that looked like a mansion.
There he met General Zaroff who bought the island to hunt. He was
indeed a sporstman who invented a new sensation of the hunting
game. His game was to train those men who's ships were wrecked
and ended up in that island, and then provide them with food and a
knife for three days. Once they were trained they were led out into
the island as a head start while Zaroff chase after them and tried to
hunt them down. If They survived during those three days they had
won the game and they were let free but in the other case if they were
found they were killed.
Zaroff never lost the game so if one of the men being hunted
was about to survive he would release the hounds to chased after
them. Rainsford rested and the next morning had a dispute with Zaroff
and told him that this hunting style was to brutal. In this argument
Zaroff got mad and at this point in the story Raisford became the
hunted. He was let loose into the island were he was to prepare
himself for the most dangerous game of his life, the survival of the
fittest.
The first night was panicking and worried Rainsford as he
hidded on top of a tree. The next day he set up a trap but Zaroff
did'nt fall for it and he almost got caught when Zaroff was right next to
the bushes were Rainsford was hiding. the last day he set up a pitfall
and while Zarroff and his servant were serching, his servant
unfortunately fell into the pit. Rainsford got out of the Island trying to
escape by swimming out into the ocean and swam back to the
mansion and when Zaroff returned Rainsford switched the game
around and proposed him to become the hunted.
I like this short story because Rainsford was wise in making
traps wich allowed Zaroff to take more time trying to find him and did
them successfully wich helped him survive those three days. I also
liked how the story ended it was kind of ironic the way Rainsfored
changed the game around and became the hunter and Zaroff became
the hunted. I thought it was a good idea because this way Zaroff
would realise that his game of hunting people was wrong and this
would teach him a lesson. 
<br><br>
Words: 612
