
Subject: English --Book Report/Review (See I Told You So, Rush Limbaugh)
It is not very often that a person has his own national television show,
radio show, and two books that have been on the New York Times Best Seller
List. Rush Limbaugh happens to be one of these unique people, his radio
show is popular, his television show has the largest audience for a program
of its type and his new book is one of the best of its kind. Limbaugh always
backed up his comments with facts or statistics. While the book was
informative and factual, it was also very humorous. See, I Told You So was
definitely a conservative use of 363 pages.
Without question, Rush Limbaugh is a spokesperson for a conservative
majority within the United States. His book follows what he says on his
radio and television programs, which is a conservative and republican view on
issues. A few of the things he stresses in his book are that conservatives
are the silent majority and President Clinton cannot ruin this country in
four years. Although he stresses that conservatives are the majority, he
says that liberals are trying to regain control by forcing the public schools
get rid good things like the Bible and competition, and replace them with
Outcome-Based Education. Most importantly, we need to motivate people to
pursue excellence and not feel sorry, pity and coddle underachievers.
While the purpose of his book is to express these views, he also covers
many other topics from the environment, to Dan's Bake Sale. The spectacle
was enough to drive a stake through the heart of liberalism (p.101), says
Rush Limbaugh about Dan's Bake Sale. Sixty-five thousand people flocked to
Fort Collins, Colorado for what was called Rushstock '93. This all started
as a quest for Dan Kay to make $29.95 for a subscription to The Limbaugh
Letter and escalated to a full day event that even Limbaugh attended.
While Rush Limbaugh discusses many different controversial and serious
issues, he manages to make it entertaining. He makes these serious issues
amusing by sarcastic comments and pionting out the irony in government today.
Parts of the book are made for just entertainment like the Politically
Correct Liberal Dictionary and the Lies, Lies chapter in which Limbaugh
backs up his theory that, the Clinton administration, has cataloged an
avalanche of false hoods with 7 pages of Clinton's major contradictions.
Rush Limbaugh makes many controversial comments throughout his book, but
instead of just commenting, he supports what he says. An example is, when he
talks about the environment. He uses references to scientific studies, other
than just speculating. Limbaugh states, Most scientists say a supernova
340,000 years ago disrupted 10 to 20 percent of the ozone, causing sunburn in
prehistoric man.... Man has never done anything close to the radiation and
explosive force of a supernova.... if prehistoric man merely got a sunburn,
how are we going to destroy the entire ozone with our air conditioners and
under arm deodorants and cause everybody to get cancer.... (p.178) 
I thought this book was very intresting. I attribute this sucesss to the
fact that rarly has there been a radio/TV commentator who consistently makes
sense on so many subjects: taxess, environmentalism, animal rights, crime,
education, the inner cities, extreme feminism, government regulation and
Congress. See, I Told You So is a serious and important book, but Rush
Limbaugh, whatever your opinion of his politics, is an marvelous entertainer.
<br><br>
Words: 578
